Welcome to the first mini-project! Here's what to expect:

you'll download the project starter files (one time only)
you'll run a startup script
near the end of each lesson, there will be a video and/or reading node telling you about the mini-project for that lesson
then, a series of reading nodes at the end of the lesson will walk you through what you should do for that mini-project, and give you a chance to enter the answers that you get as you work through the tasks (these will look like quizzes)
you'll develop the code on your own computer based on the instructions in the reading nodes
the code you write will enable you to answer the quiz questions

So, what now?
if you know git, you can clone the starter files: git clone https://github.com/udacity/ud120-projects.git
If you don't know git, Udacity has a great (and short) course that can get you started





A couple of years ago, J.K. Rowling (of Harry Potter fame) tried something interesting. She wrote a book, “The Cuckoo’s Calling,” under the name Robert Galbraith. The book received some good reviews, but no one paid much attention to it--until an anonymous tipster on Twitter said it was J.K. Rowling. The London Sunday Times enlisted two experts to compare the linguistic patterns of “Cuckoo” to Rowling’s “The Casual Vacancy,” as well as to books by several other authors. After the results of their analysis pointed strongly toward Rowling as the author, the Times directly asked the publisher if they were the same person, and the publisher confirmed. The book exploded in popularity overnight.

We’ll do something very similar in this project. We have a set of emails, half of which were written by one person and the other half by another person at the same company . Our objective is to classify the emails as written by one person or the other based only on the text of the email. We will start with Naive Bayes in this mini-project, and then expand in later projects to other algorithms.

We will start by giving you a list of strings. Each string is the text of an email, which has undergone some basic preprocessing; we will then provide the code to split the dataset into training and testing sets. (In the next lessons you’ll learn how to do this preprocessing and splitting yourself, but for now we’ll give the code to you).

One particular feature of Naive Bayes is that it’s a good algorithm for working with text classification. When dealing with text, it’s very common to treat each unique word as a feature, and since the typical person’s vocabulary is many thousands of words, this makes for a large number of features. The relative simplicity of the algorithm and the independent features assumption of Naive Bayes make it a strong performer for classifying texts. In this mini-project, you will download and install sklearn on your computer and use Naive Bayes to classify emails by author.






Check that you have a working python installation, preferably version 2.6 or 2.7 (that’s the version that we use--other versions may work, but we can’t guarantee it) We will use pip to install some packages. First get and install pip from here.
Using pip, install a bunch of python packages:
go to your terminal line (don’t open python, just the command prompt)
install sklearn: pip install scikit-learn
for your reference, here’s the sklearn installation instructions
install natural language toolkit: pip install nltk
Get the Intro to Machine Learning source code. You will need git to clone the repository: git clone https://github.com/udacity/ud120-projects.git
You only have to do this once, the code base contains the starter code for all the mini-projects. Go into the tools/ directory, and run startup.py. It will first check for the python modules, then download and unzip a large dataset that we will use heavily later. The download/unzipping can take a while, but you don’t have to wait for it to finish in order to get started on Part 1.





Create and train a Naive Bayes classifier in naive_bayes/nb_author_id.py. Use it to make predictions for the test set. What is the accuracy?

When training you may see the following error: UserWarning: Duplicate scores. Result may depend on feature ordering.There are probably duplicate features, or you used a classification score for a regression task. warn("Duplicate scores. Result may depend on feature ordering.")

This is a warning that two or more words happen to have the same usage patterns in the emails--as far as the algorithm is concerned, this means that two features are the same. Some algorithms will actually break (mathematically won’t work) or give multiple different answers (depending on feature ordering) when there are duplicate features and sklearn is giving us a warning. Good information, but not something we have to worry about.






An important topic that we didn’t explicitly talk about is the time to train and test our algorithms. Put in two lines of code, above and below the line fitting your classifier, like this:

t0 = time()
< your clf.fit() line of code >
print "training time:", round(time()-t0, 3), "s"

Put similar lines of code around the clf.predict() line of code, so you can compare the time to train the classifier and to make predictions with it. What is faster, training or prediction?

We will compare the Naive Bayes timing to a couple other algorithms, so note down the speed and accuracy you get and we’ll revisit this in the next mini-project.







